Section restructuring (#329)
ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim: draft-ietf-rats-corim.md

In the ACS augmentation phase, a CoRIM Appraisal Context and an Evidence Appraisal Policy are used by the Verifier to find CoMID triples which match the ACS.
Triples that specify an ACS matching condition will augment the ACS with Endorsements if the condition is met.

Each triple is processed independently of other triples.
However, the ACS state may change as a result of processing a triple.
If a triple condition does not match, then the Verifier continues to process other triples.

### ACS Requirements {#sec-acs-reqs}

At the end of the Evidence collection process Evidence has been converted into an internal represenetation suitable for appraisal.
See {{sec-ir-cm}}.

Verifiers are not required to use this as their internal representation.
For the purposes of this document, appraisal is described in terms of the above cited internal representation.

[^issue] https://github.com/ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim/issues/232

#### ACS Processing Requirements

The ACS contains the actual state of Attester's Target Environments (TEs).
The `state-triples` field contains Evidence (from Attesters) and Endorsements
(e.g. from `endorsed-triple-record`).

> CoMID Reference Values will be matched against the ACS, as per

Reviewer: Issue #336

the appraisal policy of the Verifier.
This document describes an example evidence structure which can be easily
matched against these Reference Values.

Each entry within `state-triples` uses the syntax of `endorsed-triple-record`.
When an `endorsed-triple-record` appears within `state-triples` it
indicates that the authority named by `measurement-map`/`authorized-by`
asserts that the actual state of one or more Claims within the
Target Environment, as identified by `environment-map`, have the
measurement values in `measurement-map`/`mval`.

ECT authority is represented by cryptographic keys. Authority
is asserted by digitally signing a Claim using the key. Hence, Claims are
added to the ACS under the authority of a cryptographic key.

Each Claim is encoded as an ECT. The `environment-map` and a

> key within `measurement-values-map` encode the name of the Claim.

Reviewer 2: refer issue #334

in the CoRIM file which tell it how claims are related.

If Evidence or Endorsements from different sources has the same `environment-map`
and `authorized-by` then the `measurement-values-map`s are merged.

The ACS must maintain the authority information for each ECT. There can be
multiple entries in `state-triples` which have the same `environment-map`
and a different authority.
See {{sec-authorized-by}}.

If the merged `measurement-values-map` contains duplicate codepoints and the
measurement values are equivalent, then duplicate claims SHOULD be omitted.
Equivalence typically means values MUST be binary identical.

If the merged `measurement-values-map` contains duplicate codepoints and the
measurement values are not equivalent, then a Verifier SHALL report
an error and stop validation processing.

##### Ordering of triple processing

Triples interface with the ACS by either adding new ACS entries or by matching existing ACS entries before updating the ACS.
Most triples use an `environment-map` field to select the ACS entries to match or modify.
This field may be contained in an explicit matching condition, such as `stateful-environment-record`.

> The order of triples processing is important.

Reviewer: The order should not be important so long as additions are followed by triple processing that has a condition that could match it. We don’t want to impose other order dependencies unless you need to stratify triple processing more explicitly.

Given that we’re defining a processing order for base triples, it should also be allowable for profiles to specify when their triples get processed if indeed order is important. Will they always be after the base triples, or can they be specified to happen at any time?

Reviewer 2: refer to issue #335

Processing a triple may result in ACS modifications that affect matching behavior of other triples.

The Verifier MUST ensure that a triple including a matching condition is processed after any other triple that modifies or adds an ACS entry with an `environment-map` that is in the matching condition.

This can be acheived by sorting the triples before processing, by repeating processing of some triples after ACS modifications or by other algorithms.

#### ACS Augmentation Requirements {#sec-acs-aug-req}

The ordering of ECTs in the ACS is not significant.

> Logically, new ECT entries are appended to the existing ACS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Logically, the ACS represents the conjunction of all claims, so adding an ECT entry to the existing ACS at the end is equivalent to inserting it anywhere else.
```

> But implementations may optimize ECT order to achieve better performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implementations may optimize ECT order to achieve better performance.
```
